back to that human sacrifice strategy
like nobody will to include these kids
on college campus won't listen to the
words that Hamas say like they imagine
some AG grieved and I know you've
covered this a lot about that who's the
oppressed and who's the oppressor you
won't take the organization's words and
actions for what they are so a human
sacrifice strategy that nobody has done
Nazis Japanese Isis where they State and
act in a way that they say they need as
many of their population their
population to die as possible
to achieve their political goal of the
war right okay so so it seems to me that
there would be two tiers to that then so
tell me if I've got this wrong I mean my
sense with regards to the Palestinians
in general and this is especially true
in Iran is that the Iranian powers that
be would use all the Palestinians as
sacrificial victims at any moment if
they could provide an effec of thorn in
Israel's side and in the side of the
West and then my sense is too that the
Hamas leadership given its history is
sufficiently corrupt and under corrupt
financially and economically and under
the sway of Iran as well so that it has
no qualms whatsoever about using its
citizens as Cannon F for its uh what its
designs on Israel in the west is there
anything is that an acccurate I mean
Anis I think so I mean
Iran's willingness to sacrifice all his
proxies
that's pretty rational well well why
wouldn't they I mean you know apart from
what you might regard as humanitarian
concerns which I don't really think
apply in the current situation in the Le
again take them for the words the Iran
strategy they call Israel the little
Satan yeah right America the great sat
and want to destroy both through the use
of this exporting of terrorism and the
pursuit of a nuclear weapon yeah like
they say these yeah yeah right well that
seems to be exactly what's happening but
the difference Hamas I don't think you
can classify as Canon fighter again
listen to the words they say they need
cuz they believe in their ideology that
martydom is the path so they're willing
to Martyr all of their population to
achieve their political goal not to
achieve some Geographic ideal of a new
place their goal stated and written is
the destruction of Israel and the death
of all Jews in the world and their path
to that is the death of their population
that they act okay so you're saying that
it isn't only that the civilians are
being manipulated by the Hamas
leadership in Iran but that they're
participating in this as a consequence
of the fundamental doctrine of Hamas
correct right okay so then I guess my
question would be to what degree are the
Palestinian citizens especially the
younger ones and I suppose this is
partly what the compassionate people on
the University campuses are getting at I
mean if you're 15 16 years old and
you've been bombarded by Iranian
propaganda since you were even younger
than that in into believing that your
best pathway forward is martyrdom then
to what degree can you be held
responsible for the fact that you
believe it and so what I mean I have the
same conundrum for example with regards
to the protesters on American campuses I
mean a lot of these kids have been
propagandized throughout High School
into this victim victimizer narrative
and they buy it completely and it's very
unfortunate and I think that they're
very dangerous in consequence but I've
seen the consequences of that propaganda
among young people it's very
demoralizing and it's also extremely
effective me we did a study in 2016
looking at the predictors of support for
politically correct authoritarianism
which is very relevant with regards to
what's happening on the campus and one
of the things we found was that even
having had one politically correct
course at any time in your life was a
significant predictor of of sympathy
with politically correct authoritarian
views now there were other predictors
not being very bright was one of them
right so low verbal IQ while that's
relevant you know low verbal IQ is a
good predictor comparatively speaking
and so was being female and having a
feminine temperament and the fourth best
predictor was ever having been
propagandized and
so how much of the doctrine that's I
know maybe I'm taking you out of your
area of specialty here you know cuz this
is a more political or even a
theological question question but how
much of the propaganda story that's
driving the Palestinian civilian
cooperation with Hamas do you think is a
consequence of planned
propagandize and how much a lot oh yeah
I mean this is this so this is the
problem with the ramifications of this
war right because it would be a proven
Iranian strategy mhm spend decades
radicalizing the culture from primary
school on the books the the the payment
structure you know the the the pay for
slave program of the Palestinian
Authority all those are
multi-decade approaches to radicalize a
population to achieve your political
goals so absolutely that's there from me
as my expertise though this is where I
think we we will definitely reach that
point in the war against Hamas and Gaza
is this how do you defeat an ideology
that's for sure right I work in the
world of strategy and War yeah but I am
fighting on a daily basis of now people
who have spent you know their phds in
counterterrorism counter Insurgency and
saying that you're creating more enemy
or more terrorist than you're killing
right right because of the military
because of the military right right so
it's a even if there's a short-term
victory that doesn't mean that you're
ensuring the long-term Victory quite the
contrary right right and do you think
that's happening in Gaza it's Bullocks
it it's it's it's a fallacy of thinking
and I think it's it's anti-intellectual
that's okay okay explain why that's like
saying you cannot remove Hitler and the
Nazi regime or dismantle its military
because you'll further radicalize the
German population who believe in the N
Nazi ideology okay well you can imagine
a circumstance under which that might
occur but the one that you just laid out
obviously didn't occur quite the
contrary the defeat of the Nazi regime
meant really meant all things considered
the defeat of the Nazi ideology okay so
well so let's go back to Hamas yes what
do you think the Israel strategy is at
the moment how is that playing out are
they being successful do you think it's
a good strategy and and do you think it
has a chance at defeating this ideology
I mean if it's if it's fostered by Iran
okay I I haven't been able to Envision
what a Pathway to Victory for the
Israelis looks like okay so tell me what
you think about that so I actually got
to go visit you know I've been into Gaza
twice um in December in in Hamas tunnels
and in February with the IDF in conun I
interviewed the Prime Minister I'm like
what are your strategic goals you gave
to the military I interviewed the head
of the IDF multiple subordinate
commanders the objectives for Israel the
path to Victory which is it's always
hard to Define that war right right
because now at this point Tri problem
there's already people who have said
it's a strategic failure for Israel
already and the war is not even know
yeah uh but I it is very clear what was
the objectives number one bringing the
hostages home so of the 240 hostages
taken on October 7th it's a clear War
goal to bring them home okay and Israel
has brought over half of them home
there's 124 left in Gaza the other one
was to remove hamash from power and
dismantle its military capability right
okay but then the question is who
exactly is Hamas how do you distinguish
them from the civilians and what are the
so you said you can respond
proportionately so you're going to
remove hamas's military capacity but if
Hamas is in some ways indistinguishable
from the Palestinian civilian population
then how do you know when you've I how
do you know when you've won right and in
a manner that's going to matter in the
future I I love this I love this spe
that most people don't ask how do you
distinguish in a in a a situation like
this where Hamas is using human
sacrifice wearing civilians there's not
a single Hamas military building in Gaza
right right not one so how do you move
forward I actually want the laws of war
up hill there's actually very clear
guidance even with a non-state actor not
wearing a uniform what classifies a
combatant or non-combatant or as a
person partaking in the hostilities as
in you're you're shooting at the idea
you're a a me a combatant person clear
now who's in Hamas this is actually my
visits to the IDF like they have a board
like walls of every member of hamas's
military from Brigade Commander
Battalion Commander company commanders
and either ex's were killed and captured
as they're breaking apart the goal of
dismantling a military is never just
like we talked about in the beginning to
destroy all of them to kill every member
of Hamas it's never been the in war and
always after the war once you remove
that power whether it is the Japanese
emperor or Hitler himself they're still
going to be tens of thousands of you
have to reconcile them you have to do
deradicalization programs you have to
disarm people right those are and that
is possible it's possible proven
everything worked in Germany worked in
Japan I can't tell you what that looks
like the day after but I can tell you it
will never even begin to work if Hamas
stays in power
[Music]